Before we dive into the lab,
let's see how the sensor fusion process works.
Inside an environment, a robot will localize itself
by collecting data from its different on-board sensors.
Each of these sensors has limitations which manifest as noise and error.
Nowadays, the three most common types of
mobile robot sensors are inertial measurement units,
rotary encoders, and vision sensors.
The inertial measurement unit can measure
both the linear acceleration and the angular velocity.
To estimate the robot's position,
a double integral of the acceleration is calculated.
However, the IMU is noisy and so
a double integration accumulates even more error over time.
So next time you want to use an IMU,
be sure to check the drift for error parameters.
Next, the rotary encoder sensors are attached to
the robot's actuated wheels and measures the velocity and position of the wheels.
To estimate the robot's position,
the integral of the velocity is calculated.
But the robot wheel might be stuck between obstacles, or even worse,
it might be driven on
slippery floors which would lead to inaccurate and noisy measurements.
So next time you want to use an encoder,
make sure to check its resolution.
Encoders with low resolution are usually highly sensitive to slippage.
Finally, division sensor is often an RGB-D camera.
Using an RGB-D, camera the robot can capture images and
sense the depth towards the obstacle which can be translated to a position.
But the image quality is usually affected by the light and
the camera is usually unable to measure the depths at small distances.
So next time you want to use an RGB-D camera,
check its smallest range of operation.
You just saw that each and every sensor has its own limitation.
The IMU and encoders are prone to drift,
whereas the camera might not always operate as expected.
So we are unable to accurately determine
the pose of the robot using just one of these sensors.
A sensor fusion of at least two of them is usually required.
Extended Kalman filter will take all the noisy measurements, compare them,
filter the noise, remove the uncertainties,
and provide a good estimate of the robot's pose.